Please download livescript for full explanation. This code uses a convolution approach to forecast and hindcast PFAS concentrations in groundwater discharge to stream water. This code is modifiable so that any mobile contaminants (i.e., the contaminant is not retarded or sorbed) can be analyzed. In its current state, this code cannot handle contaminants that decay, but this can be easily added by adding a decay term to the convolution equation.
The convolution approach requires two main inputs:
The input history of the contaminant to the groundwater system.
The transit time distribution (TTD) of groundwater which describes the groundwater ages present in a groundwater system.
This code is set up to create a custom input history (referred to here as an "input function") in which users can identify the start date and end date of contaminant input to the groundwater system and use age-dated groundwater samples to define the middle part of the input history.
When the convolution approach is applied to groundwater contaminants, it is common to use lumped parameter models (LPMs) to describe the TTD. These LPMs take a limited number of inputs based on the aquifer characteristics (e.g., mean age, screened interval, ratio of advection to dispersion, etc) to create a continuous TTD. However, this code forgoes the use of an LPM in favor of an empirical TTD. In an empirical TTD, only groundwater ages that have been specifically measured in the field are used to define the TTD.
Example inputs to define the TTD have been included in this package in the "GW_Ages.mat" file. In this editable file, groundwater age, the error/uncertainty associated with that groundwater age, the recharge year, and the specific discharge associated with groundwater collected in a stream bed have been included. To create your own custom TTD, simply update "GW_Ages.mat" with your own data. The code that follows also normalizes the specific discharge measurements into a variable called "TTD" which represents the relative abundance of each age in groundwater.
